20 Massachusetts Avenue, NW
Washington, D.C. 20529
To: REGIONAL DIRECTORS
SERVICE CENTER DIRECTORS
 FIELD OFFICE DIRECTORS
NATIONAL BENEFIT CENTER DIRECTOR
From: Jonathan Scharfen /s/
 Deputy Director
Date: July 30, 2007
Re: Matter of Perez Quintanilla (June 7, 2007)
As Deputy Director I hereby designate the attached decision of the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) in
Matter of Perez Quintanilla as a USCIS Adopted Decision. Accordingly, this decision is binding policy
guidance on all USCIS personnel. This AAO decision provides guidance regarding the determination of
constructive custody for applicants for special immigrant juvenile status pursuant to section
101(a)(27)(J)(iii)(I) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act,) 8 U.S.C.
§ 1101(a)(27)(J)(iii)(I). In addition, the decision addresses Florida Statute § 39.013(2) whereby a juvenile
court in the State of Florida extends its jurisdiction over an applicant for special immigrant juvenile status
beyond his or her 18th birthday allowing the applicant to continue to meet the eligibility criteria for special
immigrant juvenile status set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(c)(5), unless the juvenile court orders otherwise.

USCIS personnel are directed to follow the reasoning in this decision in similar cases. 
20 Massachusetts Ave., NW
Washington, D.C. 20529
FOR PUBLICATION
MATTER OF PEREZ QUINTANILLA
In Special Immigrant Petition Proceedings
A97 383 010
Decided by the Chief, Administrative Appeals Office
June 7, 2007
(1) Pursuant to section 101(a)(27)(J)(iii)(I) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act),
8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(27)(J)(iii)(I), when an applicant for special immigrant juvenile status
is in the actual or constructive custody of the Secretary of the Department of Homeland
Security, he or she must obtain the Secretary’s specific consent to a juvenile court’s
jurisdiction to determine his or her custody status or placement. For the purpose of
determining whether an applicant is in the constructive custody of the Secretary such that
specific consent is required, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services will look to the
current policy and practices of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

(2) Pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(c)(5), an applicant must continue “to be dependent upon
the juvenile court and eligible for long-term foster care” in order to be eligible for special
immigrant juvenile status. Eligibility for long-term foster care is defined by regulation to
mean “that a determination has been made by the juvenile court that family reunification
is no longer a viable option.” 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(a). When a juvenile court in the State
of Florida extends its jurisdiction over an applicant beyond his or her 18th birthday
pursuant to Florida Statute § 39.013(2), and the juvenile court has determined that the
applicant is eligible for long-term foster care due to the non-viability of family
reunification, the applicant continues to meet the eligibility criteria for special immigrant
juvenile status set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(c)(5), unless the juvenile court orders
otherwise.
ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER: DEBORAH LEE
FLORIDA IMMIGRANT ADVOCACY
CENTER, INC.
3000 BISCAYNE BLVD., SUITE 400
MIAMI, FL 33137 
A97 383 010
Page 2
DISCUSSION: The District Director, Miami, denied the special immigrant visa petition. The
matter is now before the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) on appeal. The appeal will be
sustained.
The applicant is an 18-year-old native and citizen of the Nicaragua. He seeks classification as a
special immigrant juvenile (SIJ) pursuant to section 203(b)(4) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (the Act), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(4).
The District Director found that the applicant failed to show that the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security (“DHS”) specifically consented to a juvenile court’s jurisdiction to determine
his custody status, as provided in section 101(a)(27)(J)(iii)(I) of the Act. The District Director
further found that the applicant failed to show that he continues to be eligible for long-term foster
care in the State of Florida, despite that fact that the Circuit Court of the Eleventh Judicial Circuit
In and For Miami-Dade County, Florida, Juvenile Division (“juvenile court”) extended its
jurisdiction over the applicant, as permitted by Florida Statute section 39.013(2). The petition
was denied accordingly.
On appeal, counsel for the applicant contends that the applicant did not require the specific
consent of DHS in order for the juvenile court to take jurisdiction over him. Statement from
Counsel on Form I-290B, dated December 5, 2006. Counsel further asserts that the District
Director misinterpreted federal and Florida law regarding whether the applicant is “eligible for
long-term foster care,” as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(c)(5). Id.
The record contains a statement from counsel on Form I-290B; a brief from counsel; a copy of
the applicant’s birth certificate; copies of orders from the juvenile court issued on December 3,
2004, December 19, 2005, and September 1, 2006; a copy of a predisposition report from the
Florida Department of Children and Families; a copy of the applicant’s passport; documents in
connection with the applicant’s Immigration Court proceedings; statements from the applicant; a
statement from the applicant’s grandmother; copies of correspondence from counsel to U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) regarding whether the applicant required specific
consent to the juvenile court’s jurisdiction, and; copies of two letters from ICE in connection with
separate matters regarding whether specific consent is required when an individual has been
released from custody but has not received a final order of removal. The entire record was
considered in rendering a decision on the current appeal.
Section 203(b)(4) of the Act provides classification to qualified special immigrant juveniles as
described in section 101(a)(27)(J) of the Act, which pertains to an immigrant who is present in
the United States—
(i) who has been declared dependent on a juvenile court located in the
United States or whom such a court has legally committed to, or placed
under the custody of, an agency or department of a State and who has
been deemed eligible by that court for long-term foster care due to
abuse, neglect, or abandonment;
 
A97 383 010
Page 3
(ii) for whom it has been determined in administrative or judicial
proceedings that it would not be in the alien’s best interest to be
returned to the alien’s or parent’s previous country of nationality or
country of last habitual residence; and
(iii) in whose case the Attorney General [Secretary of Homeland Security]
expressly consents to the dependency order serving as a precondition
to the grant of special immigrant juvenile status; except that—
(I) no juvenile court has jurisdiction to determine the custody
status or placement of an alien in the actual or constructive
custody of the Attorney General unless the Attorney General
specifically consents to such jurisdiction; and
(II) no natural parent or prior adoptive parent of any alien provided
special immigrant status under this subparagraph shall
thereafter, by virtue of such parentage, be accorded any right,
privilege, or status under this Act . . . .
Pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(c), an alien is eligible for classification as a special
immigrant under section 101(a)(27)(J) of the Act if the alien:
(1) Is under twenty-one years of age;
(2) Is unmarried;
(3) Has been declared dependent upon a juvenile court located in the United
States in accordance with state law governing such declarations of
dependency, while the alien was in the United States and under the
jurisdiction of the court;
(4) Has been deemed eligible by the juvenile court for long-term foster care;
(5) Continues to be dependent upon the juvenile court and eligible for longterm foster care, such declaration, dependency or eligibility not having
been vacated, terminated, or otherwise ended; and
(6) Has been the subject of judicial proceedings or administrative proceedings
authorized or recognized by the juvenile court in which it has been
determined that it would not be in the alien’s best interest to be returned to
the country of nationality or last habitual residence of the beneficiary or his
or her parent or parents . . . .
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(a) provides the following:
 
A97 383 010
Page 4
Eligible for long-term foster care means that a determination has been made by
the juvenile court that family reunification is no longer a viable option. A child
who is eligible for long-term foster care will normally be expected to remain in
foster care until reaching the age of majority, unless the child is adopted or
placed in a guardianship situation. For the purposes of establishing and
maintaining eligibility for classification as a special immigrant juvenile, a child
who has been adopted or placed in [a] guardianship situation after having been
found dependent upon a juvenile court in the United States will continue to be
considered to be eligible for long-term foster care.
Florida Statute section 39.013(2) provides the following, in pertinent part:
Procedures and Jurisdiction. . . . If a petition for special immigrant juvenile status
and an application for adjustment of status have been filed on behalf of a foster
child and the petition and application have not been granted by the time the child
reaches 18 years of age, the court may retain jurisdiction over the dependency
case solely for the purpose of allowing the continued consideration of the petition
and application by federal authorities. Review hearings for the child shall be set
solely for the purpose of determining the status of the petition and application.
The court's jurisdiction terminates upon the final decision of the federal
authorities. Retention of jurisdiction in this instance does not affect the services
available to a young adult under [section] 409.1451. The court may not retain
jurisdiction of the case after the immigrant child's 22nd birthday.
See also Fla. Child Welfare Administrative Rule 65C-31.010(1)(b)(2). The first issue in this
proceeding is whether the applicant required the specific consent of the Attorney General (now
Secretary of DHS) in order for the juvenile court to take jurisdiction over his custody status or
placement, pursuant to section 101(a)(27)(J)(iii)(I) of the Act. Section 101(a)(27)(J)(iii)(I) of the
Act states that an applicant only needs such specific consent when he is in the actual or
constructive custody of DHS.
In the instant matter, the applicant was taken into DHS custody beginning on April 25, 2003 due
to his alleged violation of section 212(a)(6)(A)(i) of the Act for being an alien present in the
United States without being admitted or paroled, or arriving in the United States at any time or
place other than as designated by the Secretary of DHS. He was issued a Notice to Appear and
placed into removal proceedings. However, the applicant was released on September 8, 2003
pending the outcome of his removal proceedings. The record does not show that the applicant
has been in DHS custody since September 8, 2003.
The applicant did not obtain the Secretary’s specific consent to the juvenile court taking
jurisdiction over his custody status or placement. On December 19, 2005, the juvenile court
issued a Best Interest Order finding that: 1) the applicant is dependent on the court due to abuse,
neglect, or abandonment by his parents; 2) the applicant is eligible for long-term foster care, as
family reunification is not a viable option; 3) it is not in the applicant’s best interest to be returned
to Nicaragua, and; 4) the juvenile court will retain jurisdiction to maintain compliance with 8
C.F.R. § 204.11(c)(5). Order from the Circuit Court of the Eleventh Judicial Circuit In and For
 
A97 383 010
Page 5
Miami-Dade County, Florida, Juvenile Division (“Best Interest Order”), dated December 19,
2005. As the juvenile court issued its order after the applicant was released from DHS custody, it
is evident that he was not in the actual custody of the Secretary at the time of issuance of the
order as contemplated by section 101(a)(27)(J)(iii)(I) of the Act.
The District Director found that the applicant was in the constructive custody of the Secretary due
to the fact that he was in removal proceedings at the time that the juvenile court issued the Best
Interest Order. Decision of the District Director at 4, dated November 6, 2006. The District
Director referenced an unpublished AAO decision, and stated that:
[T]he AAO cited and agreed with the [District Court of Appeal of the State of
Florida, Fourth District in P.G. v. Department of Children and Family Services,
867 So.2d 1248 (Fla. 4th DCA 2004)] by stating, “the Court of Appeals agreed,
finding that because the applicant had been placed into removal proceedings, he
was in the constructive custody of the Attorney General, and the juvenile court
lacked jurisdiction unless the specific consent of the Attorney General was
obtained . . . . The AAO find[s] that pursuant to the applicable statutory and
regulatory provisions, and consistent with the ruling of the Florida Court of
Appeals, Fourth District, the dependency order issued by the Florida Circuit
Court, Eleventh Judicial Circuit may be invalid if there was no specific consent
from the Secretary of Homeland Security.”
Id. The District Director determined that, in light of the referenced decision of the AAO and the
state court’s decision in P.G. v. Department of Children and Family Services, the juvenile court’s
Best Interest Order was invalid, as the Secretary did not consent to the juvenile court’s
jurisdiction over the applicant.
On appeal, counsel contends that the applicant did not require the specific consent of the
Secretary in order for the juvenile court to take jurisdiction over him. Brief from Counsel at 6-17,
submitted February 12, 2007. Counsel asserts that the decision of the District Court of Appeal of
the State of Florida, Fourth District in P.G. v. Department of Children and Family Services is not
controlling in the present matter, as the holding was based on a mistaken legal premise, and it was
decided in the Fourth District of the State of Florida while the present matter arises within the
jurisdiction of the Third Circuit(should this be District?) of the State of Florida. Id. at 13-17.
Counsel further asserts that the District Director’s reliance on the referenced unpublished AAO
decision is misplaced. Id. at 7-8. Counsel notes that the quoted language from the AAO decision
reflects that the AAO’s comments on the necessity of specific consent and the holding in P.G. v.
Department of Children and Family Services were presented as dicta, and thus did not constitute
a basis for the AAO’s decision or a definite position on the necessity of specific consent. Id.
Counsel also relies on the unpublished decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit in Pena v. Meissner, 232 F.3d 896 (9th Cir. 2000). Id. at 8-9. Counsel explains
that the Ninth Circuit held that an individual is in the constructive custody of DHS only when he
is subject to a final order of deportation. Id. at 9. Counsel contends that, as the applicant was not
subject to a final order of removal at the time the juvenile court issued the Best Interest Order, the
applicant did not require the Secretary’s specific consent to the juvenile court’s jurisdiction.
 
A97 383 010
Page 6
The applicant further submits correspondence from counsel to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE) in which counsel requested written confirmation from ICE to show that the
applicant did not require the specific consent of the Secretary in order for the juvenile court to
take jurisdiction. Letter from Counsel, dated October 23, 2006. While the applicant did not
submit a response from ICE , he submitted two letters from ICE regarding similar cases. In one
such letter, the deputy assistant director, Office of Detention and Removal, Field Operations of
ICE, stated the following:
In your letter, you stated that the Honorable Judge Bowman requested that you
obtain a letter from the Department of Homeland Security, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement (ICE), stating that he has jurisdiction in a juvenile
dependency matter relating to your client, [name redacted].
As you know, [name redacted] has been released from the custody of the federal
government and has not received an order of removal. The current practice
within ICE in [name redacted]’s situation is to not require ICE consent before a
state juvenile court can exercise jurisdiction to make rulings relevant to a
juvenile’s pursuit of special immigrant status under the Immigration and
Nationality Act, specifically Section 101(a)(27)(j), and the accompanying
regulations.
Letter from Deputy Assistant Director, Office of Detention and Removal, Field Operations of
ICE, dated January 20, 2004. In the second letter provided by the applicant, the national juvenile
coordinator, Office of Detention and Removal, Field Operations Division of ICE, reiterated the
statement quoted above. Letter from the National Juvenile Coordinator, Office of Detention and
Removal, Field Operations Division of ICE, dated January 24, 2005.
Upon review, the applicant has shown that he did not require the Secretary’s specific consent to
the juvenile court’s jurisdiction under section 101(a)(27)(J)(iii)(I) of the Act. Specifically, under
current ICE policy and practice, the applicant was not deemed to be in the constructive custody of
the Secretary at the time the juvenile court issued its order, as contemplated by section
101(a)(27)(J)(iii)(I) of the Act.
It is noted that the Act and regulations do not provide a definition of “constructive custody.” Nor
are there any precedent decisions from U.S. courts or the AAO that are binding on the present
matter. Thus, the AAO will look to internal policy and the past practice of ICE.
On May 27, 2004, William R. Yates, Associate Director for Operations, Citizenship and
Immigration Services (“CIS”), issued guidance to CIS Regional Directors and District Directors
to provide policy and procedural clarification on the adjudication of SIJ petitions. Memorandum
#3 - Field Guidance on Special Immigrant Juvenile Status Petitions (“Yates Memo”), William R.
Yates, Associate Director for Operations, Citizenship and Immigration Services, HQADN 70/23
(May 27, 2004). Mr. Yates briefly discussed specific consent as follows:
 
A97 383 010
Page 7
The adjudicator must be satisfied that the petitioner obtained specific consent
from ICE where necessary. If specific consent was necessary but not timely
obtained, a juvenile court dependency order is not valid and the petition must be
denied. INA § 101(a)(27)(J)(iii)(I); 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(c)(3). Please check with
the local ICE juvenile coordinator who handled the case to determine whether
specific consent was required, and if so, whether it was timely granted.
Id. at 5. The record does not reflect whether the District Director consulted ICE regarding
whether specific consent was required in the applicant’s case. However, the applicant has
submitted copies of letters from two different Deputy Assistant Directors of the ICE Office of
Detention and Removal, dated January 20, 2004 and January 24, 2005. These letters serve as
evidence of ICE’s policy on specific consent. As quoted above, when an applicant “has been
released from the custody of the federal government and has not received an order of removal . . .
[t]he current practice within ICE in [the applicant’s] situation is to not require ICE consent before
a state juvenile court can exercise jurisdiction to make rulings relevant to a juvenile’s pursuit of
special immigrant status . . . .” Letter from Deputy Assistant Director, Office of Detention and
Removal, Field Operations of ICE at 1.
It is noted that the record contains a copy of correspondence from counsel to the National
Juvenile Coordination Unit of ICE regarding whether the applicant required specific consent to
the juvenile court’s jurisdiction. In the letter, counsel referenced a conversation between her and
the national juvenile coordinator in which they agreed that specific consent was not required in
the applicant’s case. Letter from Counsel to the National Juvenile Coordinator, Office of
Detention and Removal, Field Operations Division of ICE, dated October 23, 2006. Counsel
requested either written confirmation that the applicant did not require specific consent, or that
ICE issue guidance to the District Director regarding current policy regarding the applicant’s
case. Id. The record does not reflect whether the applicant received correspondence from the
national juvenile coordinator as requested, or whether ICE provided guidance to the District
Director. However, there is no documentation or indication that ICE policy changed between the
January 24, 2005 letter from the national juvenile coordinator and the issuance of the Best Interest
Order on December 19, 2005.
Accordingly, the applicant has submitted sufficient evidence to show that he was not deemed by
ICE to be in constructive custody at the time the juvenile court issued the Best Interest Order. As
the applicant was not in the actual or constructive custody of the Secretary, specific consent was
not necessary in order for the juvenile court to properly take jurisdiction over the applicant’s
custody status and placement. See Letter from Deputy Assistant Director, Office of Detention and
Removal, Field Operations of ICE at 1; Letter from to the National Juvenile Coordinator, Office
of Detention and Removal, Field Operations Division of ICE at 1.
As per the May 27, 2004 CIS memorandum from William R. Yates, adjudicators should look to
current ICE practice to determine whether specific consent is required for a particular case. Yates
Memo at 5. ICE, not CIS, considers requests for specific consent to a juvenile court’s jurisdiction
when necessary. Thus, in the absence of a definition of constructive custody in the Act,
regulations, or precedent decisions, ICE policy as of the date of the juvenile court’s order
determines whether an applicant bears the burden of obtaining the Secretary’s specific consent to
 
A97 383 010
Page 8
the juvenile court’s jurisdiction pursuant to section 101(a)(27)(J)(iii)(I) of the Act. Yates Memo
at 5.
As noted above, the District Director referenced an unpublished AAO decision, and stated that, in
the decision, the AAO cited and agreed with the reasoning of the District Court of Appeal of the
State of Florida, Fourth District in P.G. v. Department of Children and Family Services, 867
So.2d 1248 (Fla. 4th DCA 2004). Decision of the District Director at 4. However, as observed
by counsel, the AAO discussion of P.G. v. Department of Children and Family Services is dicta.
The issue of specific consent did not constitute a basis for the AAO’s decision in the referenced
matter, or a definite position on the necessity of specific consent. Rather than agree with or
follow the findings in P.G. v. Department of Children and Family Services, the AAO stated that
the juvenile court order in the referenced matter may be invalid if there was no specific consent
from the Secretary of Homeland Security. Further, the decision in P.G. v. Department of
Children and Family Services was issued by a court of the State of Florida, and thus it does not
serve as binding precedent on CIS officers. Accordingly, the AAO does not find that the
reasoning or holding in P.G. v. Department of Children and Family Services dictates that the
applicant required the specific consent of the Secretary pursuant to section 101(a)(27)(J)(iii)(I) of
the Act.
Counsel discusses the unpublished decision of the Ninth Circuit in Pena v. Meissner, 232 F.3d
896 (9th Cir. 2000). Brief from Counsel at 8-9. Counsel explains that the Ninth Circuit held that
an individual is in the constructive custody of DHS only when he is subject to a final order of
deportation. Id. at 9. The reasoning of the Ninth Circuit in Pena v. Meissner is consistent with
ICE practice at the time the juvenile court issued the Best Interest Order. However, it is noted
that the present matter arises within the jurisdiction of the Eleventh Circuit of the United States
Court of Appeals, not the Ninth Circuit. Thus, while the decision of the Ninth Circuit in Pena v.
Meissner is instructive, it does not serve as binding precedent in the instant matter. Additionally,
as an unpublished decision, the Ninth Circuit indicated that its disposition in Pena v. Meissner “is
not appropriate for publication and may not be cited to or by the courts of [the Ninth Judicial
Circuit] except as provided by Ninth Circuit Rule 36-3.” Pena v. Meissner, 232 F.3d at 232.
Thus, the Ninth Circuit limited the precedential value of Pena v. Meissner, as Ninth Circuit Rule
36-3 states that “[u]npublished dispositions and orders of [the Ninth Circuit] are not precedent,
except when relevant under the doctrine of law of the case or rules of claim preclusion or issue
preclusion.” Ninth Circuit Rule 36-3.
Based on the foregoing, the applicant has established that he did not require the specific consent
of the Secretary in order for the juvenile court to properly take jurisdiction over his custody status
and placement. Thus, the Best Interest Order is valid and may serve as a basis for SIJ status.
The second issue in the present matter is whether the applicant continues to be eligible for longterm foster care, as contemplated by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(c)(5). As noted above,
on December 19, 2005, the juvenile court issued a Best Interest Order finding that: 1) the
applicant is dependent on the court due to abuse, neglect, or abandonment by his parents; 2) the
applicant is eligible for long-term foster care, as family reunification is not a viable option; 3) it is
not in the applicant’s best interest to be returned to Nicaragua, and; 4) the juvenile court will
retain jurisdiction to preserve compliance with 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(c)(5). The court stated that it
 
A97 383 010
Page 9
“remains [sic] limited Jurisdiction, pursuant to 8 C.F.R. Sec. 204.11(c)(5), to ensure that the child
satisfies the requirements for classification as a special immigrant juvenile.” Best Interest Order,
dated December 19, 2005. The juvenile court issued a second order on September 1, 2006, in
which it confirmed that it is maintaining jurisdiction over the applicant until his 22nd birthday,
pursuant to its authority under Florida Statute section 39.013(2).
The District Director noted that the applicant had reached age 18. The District Director cited
chapter 65C-31.010 of the Florida Department of Children and Families Child Welfare
Administrative Rules (FDCFCWAR), which states, in pertinent part:
(1)(b)(1) A youth may petition the court, for continued jurisdiction, anytime
before his or her 19th birthday. This jurisdiction may continue for a period not to
exceed one year beyond the youth’s 18th birthday. The youth does not maintain
“foster care” status as those who are under the age of 18. But instead the courts
maintain jurisdiction for the purpose of determining whether the young adult is
receiving appropriate adult services . . . .
The District Director determined that, pursuant to FDCFCWAR chapter 65C-31.010(1)(b)(1), as
of the applicant’s 18th birthday he was no longer eligible for long-term foster care in the State of
Florida. Accordingly, the District Director found that the applicant did not satisfy the regulation
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(c)(5), as he failed to show that he “[c]ontinues to be dependent upon the
juvenile court and eligible for long-term foster care.” The District Director effectively concluded
that the juvenile court’s retention of jurisdiction beyond the applicant’s 18th birthday, under
Florida Statute section 39.013(2), did not preserve the applicant’s eligibility for long-term foster
care as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(c)(5).
On appeal, counsel asserts that the juvenile court’s order establishes that the applicant continues
to be “eligible for long-term foster care” as contemplated by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. §
204.11(c)(5). Brief in Support of Appeal at 18. Counsel observes that, in order for an applicant to
show that he is “eligible for long-term foster care,” he need only show that a juvenile court has
determined that “family reunification is no longer a viable option.” Id. at 19 (citing 8 C.F.R. §
204.11(a)). Thus, counsel suggests that the applicant need not establish that he meets all of the
criteria for placement in foster care in the State of Florida, so long as he shows that the juvenile
court found that it is not viable for him to reunite with his family. Id. Counsel asserts that, by
failing to follow the juvenile court’s findings that family reunification is no longer a viable option
for the applicant, the District Director made an impermissible sua sponte re-determination of the
legal conclusions of the juvenile court. Id.
Upon review, the applicant has shown that he meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(c)(5).
The Best Interest Order was issued on December 19, 2005, when the applicant was age 17. The
juvenile court found that he was dependent on the court, he was eligible for long-term foster care,
and that it was no longer viable for the applicant to be reunified with his family. Thus, the
applicant met the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(c)(3) and (4). Pursuant to its authority under
Florida Statute section 39.013(2), the juvenile court ordered that it would retain jurisdiction over
the applicant “to ensure that [he] satisfies the requirements for classification as a special
immigrant juvenile.” Best Interest Order at 1. The juvenile court confirmed that it would retain
 
A97 383 010
Page 10
jurisdiction until the applicant’s 22nd birthday in a second order. Juvenile Court Order, dated
September 1, 2006.
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(a) states that eligibility for long-term foster care “means that
a determination has been made by the juvenile court that family reunification is no longer a viable
option.” Thus, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(c)(5) does not require an applicant to directly
establish that he meets all State requirements to be placed into a foster care program. In light of 8
C.F.R. § 204.11(a), an applicant may meet the foster care component of 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(c)(5)
by showing that the juvenile court on which he is dependent continues to find that it is not viable
for him to be reunited with his family. 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(a).
In the present matter, the juvenile court’s order explicitly states that family reunification is no
longer a viable option for the applicant. The juvenile court’s determination is based on clearly
stated findings of neglect and abandonment of the applicant by his parents. The juvenile court
provided that it would retain jurisdiction over the applicant until his 22nd birthday, pursuant to
Florida Statute section 39.013(2). The juvenile court made no indication that its finding of the
non-viability of family reunification would expire on the applicant’s 18th birthday, or at any time
prior to his 22nd birthday. Nor does the record reflect that the juvenile court has issued a
subsequent order amending its findings or its retention of jurisdiction. Thus, by the juvenile court
retaining jurisdiction, the applicant remains dependent upon the court and the determination of
the non-viability of family reunification remains effective. Best Interest Order at 1.
Based on the foregoing, the applicant “continues to be dependent upon the juvenile court and
eligible for long-term foster care,” as contemplated by the regulations at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.11(a)
and (c)(5).
The AAO finds that the applicant has established that he meets the requirements for SIJ status as
provided in sections 203(b)(4) and 101(a)(27)(J) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.11(c).
Accordingly, the District Director’s decision will be withdrawn and the petition will be approved.

In visa petition proceedings, the burden of proof is on the applicant to establish eligibility for the
benefit sought by a preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Brantigan, 11 I&N Dec. 151 (BIA
1965). The issue “is not one of discretion but of eligibility.” Matter of Polidoro, 12 I&N Dec.
353 (BIA 1967). In this case, the applicant has shown, by a preponderance of the evidence,
eligibility for the benefit sought. Accordingly, the appeal will be sustained and the petition will
be approved.
ORDER: The appeal is sustained.
 